- [Instructor] Within our pipeline.
We can use environment variables to make our scripts
more flexible and reusable.
Environment variables are declared
inside of an environment block within our pipeline.
Here we can define and assign variables that are accessible
by all the pipeline stages.
So let's start out by creating a variable
that will store our GitHub organization name.
We first declare the variable name,
and then we assign it a value.
I'm going to use single quotes for our first variable.
This is like creating a string literal in Java.
So inside of the single quotes,
I'm just going to type the name of my GitHub organization.
Here you'll want to be careful to use
your GitHub organization name and not mine.
Now let's create another variable that will store the name
of our container registry.
Here I'm going to use double quotes
because that allows us to use string interpolation.
That means we can reference another variable
inside of this string.
To do that we need to create a placeholder.
That's done by typing a dollar sign,
an opening curly brace,
and then a closing curly brace,
and then inside of the curly braces,
we just place the name of another variable
that we would like to include within this string.
This will get evaluated as an expression
and the value for this variable
will be placed inside the string.
Now here we'll also need to include the domain
for our container registry,
which is the GitHub container registry.
It's found at ghcr.io, then we'll place a forward slash,
and then we'll end the string
with a forward slash as well.
Now let's create another variable
that will store the artifactId from our POM.xml file.
Within Jenkins we can use a pipeline utility step
to retrieve that information from the POM.
So here we'll just say, "read Maven POM",
and then we'll invoke the getArtifactId method
on that utility method.
This will retrieve the artifactId from our POM
and store it inside of our artifactId variable.
Now let's go ahead and we can use that in another variable,
the JAR name.
So here we'll store the name of the JAR
that we'd like to create through our Maven build.
First, I'm going to reference the artifactId variable,
using a placeholder.
Then I'm going to specify a dash and then I'm going to use
another placeholder to obtain the build number.
Now the build number is another environment variable
that Jenkins makes available by default for our pipeline.
There's a number of these variables that Jenkins
will make available to us.
You can consult the documentation to see them all.
Here we're using the build number as sort of a version ID
for our JAR.
All right, let's create one final variable,
which will be the image name.
So here I'll use double quotes once again,
then I'm going to include the container registry variable
through interpolation,
and following that will include the artifactId.
And this will help build the name of our container image.
Okay, now that we've declared these variables,
let's go ahead and we can use them
inside of our pipeline stages.
So here where we're building the application,
I'm going to say "Performing Maven Build"
and then I'll include the name of the artifactId.
Now you might be wondering
why we can use single quotes here,
and that's because this is actually part of
the Shell Command that we're executing.
So it will be referenced through that command
as opposed to interpolation.
All right, let's move on to our next stage
where we're building the container image.
And here I'm just going to add the image name
into this step.
And then we'll come down here
to where we're publishing the container image.
And I'm going to switch this up a little bit.
I'll say where we're publishing the container image to,
and here we can use our container registry variable.
Okay, so now we're making use of these variables
inside our pipeline stages,
and this helps us avoid hard coding values
that we might need for each specific microservice.
And that's going to make our pipeline generic enough
that we can reuse it across multiple microservices
in our application.